DRAFT: feat(k8s): add acl docs (#3460)
scaleway/docs-content: containers/kubernetes/how-to/manage-allowed-ips.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Managing allowed IP addresses for Kubernetes products
  description: Learn how to manage allowed IP addresses for your Kubernetes Kapsule and Kosmos clusters. Configure access restrictions efficiently with our step-by-step guide.
content:
  h1: Managing allowed IP addresses for Kubernetes products
  paragraph: Learn how to manage allowed IP addresses for your Kubernetes Kapsule and Kosmos clusters. Configure access restrictions efficiently with our step-by-step guide.
tags: kubernetes kapsule kosmos
dates:

>   validation: 2024-07-10
>   posted: 2024-07-10

Author: ```suggestion
  validation: 2024-11-05
  posted: 2024-11-05
```

---
meta:
  title: Managing allowed IP addresses for Kubernetes products
  description: Learn how to manage allowed IP addresses for your Kubernetes Kapsule and Kosmos clusters. Configure access restrictions with our step-by-step guide.
content:
  h1: Managing allowed IP addresses for Kubernetes products
  paragraph: Learn how to manage allowed IP addresses for your Kubernetes Kapsule and Kosmos clusters. Configure access restrictions with our step-by-step guide.
tags: kubernetes kapsule kosmos
dates:

>   validation: 2024-11-05

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  validation: 2024-12-16
```

>   posted: 2024-11-05

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  posted: 2024-12-16
```

categories:
  - containers
---

> Restricting IPs on Kubernetes Kapsule or Kosmos clusters enhances security by limiting access to only trusted sources, thereby reducing the risk of unauthorized access and potential attacks.
> This control ensures that only specific IP addresses or networks can interact with your clusters, providing an additional layer of protection.
> The default entry `0.0.0.0/0` enables any host to establish a connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restricting IPs on Kubernetes Kapsule or Kosmos clusters enhances security by limiting access to only trusted sources. Since only IP addresses and networks specified by you can interact with your clusters, you reduce the risk of unauthorized access and potential attacks.

The default entry `0.0.0.0/0` enables any host to establish a connection.
```

<Macro id="requirements" />

> - Scaleway account logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Scaleway account logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
```

- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing actions in the intended Organization
- [Created](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster) a Kubernetes Kapsule or Kosmos cluster

<Message type="note">
  Allowed IP configuration is available for public networks only.
</Message>

## How to add an IP address

> 1. Click **Kubernetes** in the **Containers** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com). The **Kubernetes Kapsule dashboard** appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Kubernetes** in the **Containers** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com). The **Kubernetes dashboard** appears.
```

Reviewer: We're specifying Kubernetes Kapsule here, but the requirements say that users can do this either on a Kapsule or Kosmos cluster. We must either remove the Kapsule mention here or state that the settings we show on this page are specifically for Kapsule, no?

Reviewer 2: We may leave it to **Kubernetes dashboard**, indeed yes.

2. Select the cluster you wish to configure. The **Cluster information** page opens.
3. Click the **Network** tab to display your cluster's network information. Your access control list appears in the **Allowed IPs for control plane** section.
4. Click **Add allowed IP**. Enter the IP address or IP block in [CIDR notation](/network/ipam/concepts/#cidr-notation) (e.g., `198.51.100.135/32` for a single IP, `198.51.100.0/24` for an IP block) and click **Add IPs**.
   <Message type="note">
      To restore default settings and allow connections from all IPs, add `0.0.0.0/0` to the list.
   </Message>

<Message type="important">
    For **Kosmos** multi-cloud clusters, allow connections from all Scaleway IP subnets to ensure proper functionality. Access from these IPs cannot be restricted. Refer to our [peering information](https://www.scaleway.com/en/peering/) for details on all Scaleway IP prefixes.
</Message>

## How to delete an IP address

> 1. Click **Kubernetes** in the **Containers** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com). The **Kubernetes Kapsule dashboard** appears.

Reviewer: Check if Kapsule mention should be here.

Reviewer 2: **Kubernetes dashboard** only would make sense.

> 1. Click **Kubernetes** in the **Containers** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com). The **Kubernetes Kapsule dashboard** appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Kubernetes** in the **Containers** section of the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com). The **Kubernetes dashboard** appears.
```
